---
layout: post
title: ST558-651 Reflection Post
---

This class flew by. This may have been one of the busiest summers of my life between late nights with this class, work, hauling my son around to different summer camps, and too many other things to list. I reread my initial blog post regarding the meaning of data science, and I do not feel like my opinion changed much from then to now. However, I the creation of shiny apps does add a new wrinkle, since I had not really considered app development to be an aspect of the field. 

I believe I mentioned this in a previous post, but I attended NC State prior to this for computer programming, and this class certainly made me thankful that I did. Building an app itself is a bit of a daunting task, and if I had no previous experience in debugging, css/html, and learning new languages, I think the final project would have seemed impossibly hard. Overall, this class fit my learning goals perfectly. I would take 10 more like it: working with data, applying different summarization and modeling techniques, making inference, and finding interesting ways to present information are the exact skills I am trying to continue growing every day.

Last week at my job I learned that there is a web version of R-Studio and we can connect it to our Teradata servers. Previously, I almost exclusively used SAS for this purpose, which it does fine at, but I am quite excited to switch over to R. I think between R and Python, I may be slowly phasing SAS out of my life. Going forward, I would like to keep my modeling skills sharp, and perhaps improve at my linear model selection process (particularly hunting for non-linearity in predictor variables as they relate to the response) and interaction terms. 
